# 5990M_final_project
201712977-Qiuhang Ren

The background/context of the project:
Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) is a combined measure of relative deprivation, which is often used to analyse and compare levels of deprivation between, for example, Lower Super Output Areas (LSOAs).The IMD produces an overall deprivation score by combining deprivation indices across multiple domains, which often include:
Income: measures the proportion of low-income households.
Employment: measures the extent of unemployment and underemployment.
Education: measures deficiencies in education, skills and training.
Health: measures health and disability.
Crime: measures the incidence of crime and victimisation.
Living Environment: measures the quality of housing and living conditions.
Access to Services: Measures the ease of access to necessary services.
The main purpose of IMD is to provide statistical support for resource allocation and targeted pro-poor policy formulation through the analysis of data algorithms. In general, a higher IMD index indicates a higher level of poverty in the region; conversely, a lower IMD index indicates a lower level of poverty in the region.


What data the GitHub repository contains:
The files used in the code consist of two CSV files and a GeoJSON file. "IMD.csv" contains the Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD) for the whole of the UK, along with the other indices of deprivation that make up the index, including Income, Employment, Education_Skills_Training, Crime, Barriers_to_Housing_and_Services and Living_Environment. "Disabled_Percentage.csv" contains the percentage of people with disabilities. These people are disabled under the Equality Act and include the two categories "Day-to-day activities limited a lot" and "Day-to-day activities limited a little". "Leeds.geojson" contains a map of the Leeds city boundary under the Lower Super Output Areas (LSOAs) method, with geometry values that can be used to draw the map in a python environment.

What the code aims to do :
The code is used to examine the relationship between disability and Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD), with non-spatial and spatial visualizations, and is used to examine whether and to what extent disability contributes to poverty. The code itself contains a variety of functions, including writing and reading data, merging and filtering data, constructing models from which non-spatial visualizations, i.e. line graphs, scatter plots, graphs and histograms, and spatial visualizations, i.e. cluster analyses and cluster maps, can be created.

Description of the code process
First, write and read the code. In order to do this, potentially required packages need to be imported, including geopandas (gpd) and matplotlib.pyplot (plt), etc. The files "IMD.csv", "Disabled_Percentage.csv" and "Leeds.geojson" are then uploaded to the code. Using gpd's read file function to read the three files separately, check the integrity of the files and view the first five lines, we found that the area codes in the two CSV files can be matched with the GeoJSON file, and all of them contain the Lower Super Output Area (LSOA) codes for some areas of Leeds. Check if the GeoJSON file can create maps (because it contains geometry).
Second, the two CSV files are merged into the GeoJSON file. The area code "LSOA21CD" in "Leeds.geojson" is used as the base, and "LSOA" in the CSV file is linked to it. It should be noted that the individual files may not match all the items perfectly, so use "dropna()" to remove the null values from the table. Check the first five rows of the new table to make sure that the data displayed corresponds to the original data and is accurate. At this point, the data preprocessing step is complete and can be analysed.
Third, K-means model is used for cluster analysis. Create a list "[]" and define the number of clusters (which is 7). Using the for loop to randomly take values and create clusters one by one. Then, a total of eight variables in the two CSV files are added, including “Disabled_Percentage”, “Income”, “Employment”, “Education_Skills_Training”, “Crime”, "Barriers_to_Housing_and_Services", "Living_Environment", and "IMD" are added to the model. Calculate the sum of the squared distances and add this to the 'Sum_of_squared_distances' list. After setting plot parameters, plot the sum of squared distances against the number of clusters(7) to create a “elbow method for optimal k” line plot. Check the cluster labels and the first 5 rows of clusters. They can be used to create a pair plot using all factors and Cluster, and it's colour blind friendly to choose the palette as ”colorblind”. These are part of the non-spatial visualization.
Fourth, a cluster map is created. Using the existing K-means clustering, this can be spatially visualised. Setting parameters, including choosing a 'Accent' cmap as the colormap, scaling a 9X9 size, plotting the map and choosing the cmap as colormap (and other parameters such as legend) and The final map generated shows the spatial distribution of the six clusters, with some areas appearing white due to the presence of nulls.
Finally, plot the median histogram.Use groupby to get the median decile value of each domain factor and then examine the first five rows of the table.To make it easier to analyse and compare the graphs, transform the data format from "wide" to "long", and similarly check the first five rows of the table. Notice that there are three rows in the table, rename the columns from left to right as "Cluster", "Domain Factor" and "Median" according to their meanings and repeat the checking of the table. After setting the palette to the colourblind friendly "colourblind", create a bar plot, where each row is a different cluster, to see the domain factors. A horizontal table will make it easier to compare different clusters and their domain factors.
